The arms on my watch showed the time to be 8:20 PM. We were meeting up in front of Kaihin-Makuhari Station, so there I was leaning against a sculpture that, for some reason, was big, long, and pointy. Nickname: weird pointy thing. The place we were heading was on the top floor of the Hotel Royal Okura: the bar Angel’s Ladder. It was the only other business in Chiba that operated until morning and had a name starting with angel. This was probably the first and last time I’d ever go to such a fancy place.
I had a thin jacket with me that still felt unfamiliar, and I put it on again to get used to it. I’d liberated this gem from my father’s closet without asking, and I guess we had roughly the same build, because it fit me perfectly. With the jacket, I wore a black shirt with a collar, jeans, and long-nose leather shoes on my feet. Usually, I’d never dress up like this. I just didn’t really care about clothes and stuff in general. All of it aside from the jeans was my dad’s. I’d even gelled up my hair.
Outfit coordinated by: Komachi Hikigaya. I’d asked Komachi to pick out some stuff for me to try and make me look older, so she’d ransacked the house and pulled together this outfit. “You’ve got this exhausted look in your eyes like a salaryman who’s tired of life, Bro, so if you just do something about your clothes and hair, you’ll look like a grown-up.”
How was I supposed to react to a remark like that? Come on… Are my eyes that bad?
The first one to show up at our rendezvous point was Saika Totsuka. “Sorry, did I keep you waiting?”
“No, I just got here.”
Totsuka’s outfit was slightly sporty in a unisex sort of way. His cargo pants were on the loose side, and his T-shirt was slightly on the tight side. He had a fine-threaded beanie pulled back on his head, and there were headphones around his neck. The dully shining wallet chain at his hip swung every time his sneaker-clad feet moved. This was the first time I’d ever seen Totsuka out of uniform, so I stared at him, dazed.
Totsuka pulled down the beanie as if he was embarrassed for some reason in an attempt to hide his eyes. “D-don’t stare at me like that… D-do I look weird?”
“N-no, not at all! It suits you.”
It kind of felt like we were on a date, somehow, but unfortunately, we weren’t. As proof of that, Zaimokuza materialized. For some reason, he was wearing samue and had a white towel wrapped around his head like a bandanna. I ignored him.
“Hmph. I believe this was where our party was supposed to meet… Oh-ho! Is that not Hachiman?”
His obnoxious little act got on my nerves, but now that he’d found me, there was nothing I could do. “What’s with that outfit? Why are you wearing a towel on your head? Are you gonna run a ramen shop?”
He sighed. “Oh, Hachiman. Was it not you who said we should dress like adults? And so I chose the style of a working man: a samue and a towel.”
Oh, so that’s what he’d been thinking. Well, he already had it on, so there was nothing that could be done about it now. Actually, we could just leave him behind, so whatever.
I think I’d reached that conclusion right around the time I heard the click, click of Yuigahama approaching. Her eyes darting about, she pulled out her phone. Oh, so she hadn’t noticed us.
“Yuigahama.” I called out to her, and she twitched before turning timidly in my direction. Hey, wait. You were just looking at me a second ago, though.
“H-Hikki? Oh, it’s you! I didn’t recognize you for a second… Th-that outfit…”
“What? Don’t laugh.”
“N-no, that’s not it at all! Um, it’s so different from what you usually wear, it just startled me…” She ogled me, going “Whoa!” and “Ooh!” and “Ahh!” before giving me a vigorous nod. “Komachi picked this out, didn’t she?”
“Oh, so you could tell.”
“I knew it.” Yuigahama came off as if she’d somehow been convinced of something…but what? She was giving me a Piiko-esque fashion evaluation for some reason, so I decided to do the same like Don Konishi.
Yuigahama wore a tube top with a plastic bra strap over the right side; the left was off the shoulder. Apparently, she liked her heart-charm necklace a lot, as she still had it dangling from her neck. Over her top, she sported a short-sleeved denim jacket, and down below, she had on a pair of black short shorts with metal buttons. Her feet were covered by some fairly high-heeled mules with a bit that wrapped around her ankles like a vine. With every step, her anklet rattled.
“You’re kinda…not very adult-looking.”
“What? Howso?!” Yuighama seemed flustered as she scrutinized her arms and her legs. That made her look even more like a college student than her style already did.
That accounted for almost our entire party. Now just one more…and with that thought, a voice called out from behind us. “I apologize. Am I late?” Her white summer dress was vivid in the darkness. The black leggings beneath it made her slim legs look supple. Her utterly simple, tiny mules complimented her slender ankles. When she turned her wrist up to check the time, the pink face of her smallish wristwatch shone cutely against her white skin. The metal strap wrapped around that smooth wrist looked like silverwork. “So I’m right on time.” Like edelweiss blooming at night, Yukino Yukinoshita radiated a composed charm.
“Y-yeah…” Nothing else came out of me. I remembered that first time I stepped into the Service Club clubroom and how she’d overwhelmed me.
If only she had a decent personality…
“Have you ever heard of the no-waste ghost?”
“What nonsense. There’s no such thing as ghosts.” Yukinoshita immediately waved my comment aside and looked our entire entourage up and down. “Hmm…” Then, starting with Zaimokuza, she pointed to each of us in order. “Fail.”
“Muh?”
“Fail.”
“Huh?”
“Fail.”
“What?”
“Disqualified.”
“Hey…” For some reason, she was grading pass/fail, and I’d gotten a different mark from everybody else.
“I told you to wear mature clothing, didn’t I?”
“Not to dress up like adults?”
“You can’t get into the establishment we’re visiting without appropriate attire. It’s common sense that a man would wear a collared shirt and a formal jacket.”
“R-really…?” Totsuka asked, and Yukinoshita nodded.
“It’s a fairly standard policy at some of the more upscale restaurants and hotels. You should keep that in mind.”

“You sure know a lot about this.” This didn’t sound like the sort of intel your average high schooler would have at their fingertips. I mean, the only restaurants we went to were Saize and Bamiyan. The fanciest it got was Roiyaho. Anyway, the only one of us wearing a formal jacket was me. Totsuka was fairly casual, and Zaimokuza was dressed up like a ramen chef.
“M-my clothes are no good?” Yuigahama fretted, and Yukinoshita looked slightly troubled.
“The dress code isn’t so particular for women, but…if Hikigaya is the one escorting you, that might be a little sketchy.”
“Come on, come on! Lookit the jacket, the jacket!” I fluttered my jacket like Hiromi Gou in an attempt to call attention to it, but Yukinoshita only chuckled derisively.
“No matter how much you attempt to divert attention from them with your clothing, your eyes are so rotten, I doubt your ability to get in.”
Were they really that bad?
“I don’t want to have to come back a second time because we were refused service, so it might be a good idea for Yuigahama to come get changed at my place.”
“Huh? I can go to your place, Yukinon?! Let’s go, let’s go! Oh, but I’m not being a bother, coming over this late?”
“You don’t have to worry about it. I live alone.”
“You’re such a strong, independent woman!” Yuigahama’s astonishment was overdone.
Was that her standard, really? Was every woman who lived alone strong and independent? But hearing that Yukinoshita lived alone, it did make sense. She was an amazing cook, but more than anything, I couldn’t imagine her living with another human being.
“Then let’s go. It’s just over that way.” Yukinoshita turned to the skyline behind her, indicating an apartment building known for being expensive, even within the region. Since I didn’t watch TV much, I didn’t really know, but apparently, they sometimes shot commercials or TV shows there. (Fun fact: Kaihin-Makuhari was often used as a location for superhero shows, too.) Yukinoshita’s gaze was fixed near the top of the skyscraper distinguished by a pale orange light. It seemed her apartment was on one of the higher floors. Wh-whoa, is she actually bourgeoisie? I guess if she wasn’t, her parents probably wouldn’t have let their high school daughter live alone.
“I’m sorry you came all this way, Totsuka, but—”
“No, it’s okay. I got to see everyone out of uniform, and that was fun,” Totsuka said, smiling brightly. He was so cute, I didn’t want him to go yet.
“Hey, so, Yuigahama, while you’re getting changed, the three of us will go get something to eat,” I said. “When it’s over, just give me a call whenever.”
“Yeah, I will!”
We split with the pair, and the three of us guys fell silent as if gauging how hungry we were.
“So on what shall we dine?” Zaimokuza asked, rubbing his belly.
Totsuka and I looked at each other.
“Ramen, I guess.”
“Yeah, ramen.”
